#Security & Protection

##Introduction:
In today's Digital World where every piece of Information is in Computerized Form. So in that case solving a problem through Computer Science is not merely sufficient. You do have to secure that piece of information. Let us take an example of Banking System if the particular bank is not able to save your data in secure form that you are in a Big Trouble. This where the importance of Security come.
There are two basic types of Security:
	**-Network Security*
	*-System Security*
*Network Security* is essentially protection of *Network* from unauthorized access.
*System Security* deals with authorization and protection of system form Malicious Software.
  
#Goals

##Security & Protection:
Security is the  prevention of System from unauthorized access to System.
It can be Malicious(Intentionally) or Accidental(unintentionally).
Protection is the mechanism that enforces the controlled access to specific users.
It enforces the security policies.

####Authentication:
Authentication ensures that users, machines, programs, and resources are properly identified.

####Integrity:
Verify that data has not been compromised i.e. deleted, modified, added.

####Confidentiality:
It prevent unauthorized access to data.

####Availability:
It ensures that the system is accessible whenever the user wanted to use to it.

##Formalism:
The OS provides processess with access to resources. It is like the relation of subject & object. For Example: we are having a resource called Processor(s) it works on *Process Scheduler*. Here the role of an OS come let say if Processor wanted to access the Process Scheduler then OS would check whether the access should be granted to the particular Component or not which is the Policy implemented by Security.



##Access Control Matrix/Lists:
###Access Control Matrix:
So now we are defining our policy in which we are deciding that to whom we should give access of particular operation & to whom not, we are defining this in our Policy. Let us say we are having a *Management System of a University* so there are certain Privileges given to student & Faculty. Like student can read his mark his attendance but he cannot insert his attendance. Besides, Faculty can insert the marks & attendance of that particular subject which he teaching and can also read the marks & attendance of the student enrolled in that particular course. But the question is *How is this implemented??* Well, there are two ways of implementing this one is *Access Control Matrix* while other is *Access Control Matrix*.
In *Access Control Matrix* Rows are defined as *Domain* or *Subject* while Columns are defined as *Objects*. Each entry represents an access right of a domain on an object.

####Domain Transfer:
Let us say that we have a user who have an access to multiple Privileges. Let us take an example of HoD of an Institute who is also an Instructor too. So if he wanted to enter the marks or attendance of the student in that particular course he should have to login as an Instructor in order to have that particular right pf marks entry. This is called the *Domain Transfer*.

###Access Control Lists:
Let us do this in a clean way by *Access Control Lists* here what we are doing, we are defining this object & domain relationship through Dictionary like structures in which the **key** is *Domain* and its **value** is *Object*.

##Passwords Management:
We now know how certain privileges are given to a certain *user*. The opening door to access his privileges is that he login to the particular application for which he has to give his credentials in which the *Password* is of prime importance. If your  *Database* is not secure enough then their is a high risk that someone stole the password and access your data and that its his wish whatever he want to do with that.

##Hash & Salts:
So here a question is raised how can we secure our password even if some intruder get the database file of the passwords, he is unable to crack your password. The answer to this question is that we use Hashing & Salt  technique to secure our password.
**Hashing** is a technique in which the given input is converted into a reversibe key in order that if we want to retrieve our password from that particular key we can do that by passing that key through that function which create key for us.
But if a password is used having plain text then after Hashing there is a also a risk that your password is cracked. So what you have to do, you have to use a password consisting of alphabets, numbers & special characters. Such that it has the Hash which is unable to Crack
